README.md, before:

e-mission phone app
--------------------

This is the phone component of the e-mission system.

:sparkles: This has now been upgraded to cordova android@9.0.0 and iOS@6.0.1 ([details](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/issues/554)). It has also been upgraded to [android API 29](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/pull/707/), [cordova-lib@10.0.0 and the most recent node and npm versions](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/pull/708)It also now supports CI, so we should not have any build issues in the future. The limitations from the [previous upgrade](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/issues/519) have all been resolved. This should be ready to build out of the box, after all the configuration files are changed.

Additional Documentation
---
Additional documentation has been moved to its own repository [e-mission-docs](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs). Specific e-mission-phone wikis can be found here:
https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/tree/master/docs/e-mission-phone

**Issues:** Since this repository is part of a larger project, all issues are tracked [in the central docs repository](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/issues). If you have a question, [as suggested by the open source guide](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#communicating-effectively), please file an issue instead of sending an email. Since issues are public, other contributors can try to answer the question and benefit from the answer.

Updating the UI only
---
[![osx-serve-install](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/workflows/osx-serve-install/badge.svg)](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/actions?query=workflow%3Aosx-serve-install)

If you want to make only UI changes, (as opposed to modifying the existing plugins, adding new plugins, etc), you can use the **new and improved** (as of June 2018) e-mission dev app. 

### Installing (one-time)

Run the setup script

```
$ bash setup/setup_serve.sh
```

**(optional)** Configure by changing the files in `www/json`.
Defaults are in `www/json/*.sample`

```
$ ls www/json/*.sample
$ cp www/json/startupConfig.json.sample www/json/startupConfig.json
$ cp ..... www/json/connectionConfig.json
```

### Activation (after install, and in every new shell)

```
$ source setup/activate_serve.sh
```
  
### Running

1. Start the phonegap deployment server and note the URL(s) that the server is listening to.

    ```
    $ npm run serve
    ....
    [phonegap] listening on 10.0.0.14:3000
    [phonegap] listening on 192.168.162.1:3000
    [phonegap]
    [phonegap] ctrl-c to stop the server
    [phonegap]
    ....
    ```
  
1. Change the devapp connection URL to one of these (e.g. 192.168.162.1:3000) and press "Connect"
1. The app will now display the version of e-mission app that is in your local directory
  1. The console logs will be displayed back in the server window (prefaced by `[console]`)
  1. Breakpoints can be added by connecting through the browser
    - Safari ([enable develop menu](https://support.apple.com/guide/safari/use-the-safari-develop-menu-sfri20948/mac)): Develop -> Simulator -> index.html
    - Chrome: chrome://inspect -> Remote target (emulator)
    
**Ta-da!** :gift: If you change any of the files in the `www` directory, the app will automatically be re-loaded without manually restarting either the server or the app :tada:

**Note1**: You may need to scroll up, past all the warnings about `Content Security Policy has been added` to find the port that the server is listening to.

End to end testing
---
A lot of the visualizations that we display in the phone client come from the server. In order to do end to end testing, we need to run a local server and connect to it. Instructions for:

1. installing a local server,
2. running it, 
3. loading it with test data, and
4. running analysis on it

are available in the [e-mission-server README](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-server/blob/master/README.md).

In order to make end to end testing easy, if the local server is started on a HTTP (versus HTTPS port), it is in development mode.  By default, the phone app connects to the local server (localhost on iOS, [10.0.2.2 on android](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5806220/how-to-connect-to-my-http-localhost-web-server-from-android-emulator-in-eclips)) with the `prompted-auth` authentication method. To connect to a different server, or to use a different authentication method, you need to create a `www/json/connectionConfig.json` file. More details on configuring authentication [can be found in the docs](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/docs/e-mission-common/configuring_authentication.md).

One advantage of using `skip` authentication in development mode is that any user email can be entered without a password. Developers can use one of the emails that they loaded test data for in step (3) above. So if the test data loaded was with `-u shankari@eecs.berkeley.edu`, then the login email for the phone app would also be `shankari@eecs.berkeley.edu`.

Updating the e-mission-\* plugins or adding new plugins
---
[![osx-build-ios](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/workflows/osx-build-ios/badge.svg)](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/actions?query=workflow%3Aosx-ubuntu-build-android)
[![osx-ubuntu-build-android](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/workflows/osx-ubuntu-build-android/badge.svg)](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/actions?query=workflow%3Aosx-build-ios)

Pre-requisites
---
- the version of xcode used by the CI
    - to install a particular version, use [xcode-select](https://www.unix.com/man-page/OSX/1/xcode-select/)
    - or this [supposedly easier to use repo](https://github.com/xcpretty/xcode-install)
    - **NOTE**: the basic xcode install on Catalina was messed up for me due to a prior installation of command line tools. [These workarounds helped](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/blob/master/macOS_Catalina.md).
- git
- the most recent version of android studio
    - **NOTE**: although Catalina has a `/usr/bin/java`, trying to run it gives the error `No Java runtime present, requesting install.`. Installed [OpenJDK 1.8 using AdoptOpenJDK](https://adoptopenjdk.net/releases.html) to be consistent with the CI.

Important
---
Most of the recent issues encountered have been due to incompatible setup. We
have now:
- locked down the dependencies,
- created setup and teardown scripts to setup self-contained environments with
  those dependencies, and
- CI enabled to validate that they continue work.

If you have setup failures, please compare the configuration in the passing CI
builds with your configuration. That is almost certainly the source of the error.

Installing (one time only)
---
Run the setup script for the platform you want to build

```
$ bash setup/setup_android_native.sh
AND/OR
$ bash setup/setup_ios_native.sh
```

**(optional)** Configure by changing the files in `www/json`.
Defaults are in `www/json/*.sample`

```
$ ls www/json/*.sample
$ cp www/json/startupConfig.json.sample www/json/startupConfig.json
$ cp ..... www/json/connectionConfig.json
```

### Activation (after install, and in every new shell)

```
$ source setup/activate_native.sh
```



Run in the emulator

```
$ npx cordova emulate ios
AND/OR
$ npx cordova emulate android
```

Creating logos
---
If you are building your own version of the app, you must have your own logo to
avoid app store conficts. Updating the logo is very simple using the [`ionic
cordova resources`](https://ionicframework.com/docs/v3/cli/cordova/resources/)
command.

**Note**: You may have to install the [`cordova-res` package](https://github.com/ionic-team/cordova-res) for the command to work


Troubleshooting
---
- Make sure to use `npx ionic` and `npx cordova`. This is
  because the setup script installs all the modules locally in a self-contained
  environment using `npm install` and not `npm install -g`
- Check the CI to see whether there is a known issue
- Run the commands from the script one by one and see which fails
    - compare the failed command with the CI logs
- Another workaround is to delete the local environment and recreate it
    - javascript errors: `rm -rf node_modules && npm install`
    - native code compile errors: `rm -rf plugins && rm -rf platforms && npx cordova prepare`

Beta-testing debugging
---
If users run into problems, they have the ability to email logs to the
maintainer. These logs are in the form of an sqlite3 database, so they have to
be opened using `sqlite3`. Alternatively, you can export it to a csv with
dates using the `bin/csv_export_add_date.py` script.

```
<download the log file>
$ mv ~/Downloads/loggerDB /tmp/logger.<issue>
$ pwd
.../e-mission-phone
$ python bin/csv_export_add_date.py /tmp/loggerDB.<issue>
$ less /tmp/loggerDB.<issue>.withdate.log
```

Contributing
---

Add the main repo as upstream

    $ git remote add upstream https://github.com/covid19database/phone-app.git

Create a new branch (IMPORTANT). Please do not submit pull requests from master

    $ git checkout -b mybranch

Make changes to the branch and commit them

    $ git commit

Push the changes to your local fork

    $ git push origin mybranch

Generate a pull request from the UI

Address my review comments

Once I merge the pull request, pull the changes to your fork and delete the branch
```
$ git checkout master
$ git pull upstream master
$ git push origin master
$ git branch -d mybranch
```

Commit message:

Initial version of the react integration
- We check in the JSX file of the tutorial directly into e-mission

- We include ngReact in the dependencies
- We include `<script` tags for the react libraries and ngReact itself
- We include babel in the npm dependencies
- We add a command `compile-react` to run babel to compile the JSX
- We add a README instruction on how to run it and generate the js file
- We change the app to depend on react and to create a directive with the
  `TutorialComponent`
- We add a new file `survey.html` which basically includes only the `<tutorial`
  tag in the main body
- We read the file into the scope taking i18n into account, similar to the
  other files in the intro
- We add a new slide for the new `survey.html`, using the scope variable, of course

With this change, we can see tutorial during the onboarding
https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/issues/643#issuecomment-877983937

This is consistent with my action item in
https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/issues/643#issuecomment-878505316

Note that since `package.cordovabuild.json` currently does not include any
commands, this is only supported in the devapp (serve) option. using a full
native build will not allow react components to be added.

This is fine since this is a temporary measure, which will be addressed when we
break this dependency.

README.md, after:

e-mission phone app
--------------------

This is the phone component of the e-mission system.

:sparkles: This has now been upgraded to cordova android@9.0.0 and iOS@6.0.1 ([details](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/issues/554)). It has also been upgraded to [android API 29](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/pull/707/), [cordova-lib@10.0.0 and the most recent node and npm versions](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/pull/708)It also now supports CI, so we should not have any build issues in the future. The limitations from the [previous upgrade](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/issues/519) have all been resolved. This should be ready to build out of the box, after all the configuration files are changed.

Additional Documentation
---
Additional documentation has been moved to its own repository [e-mission-docs](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs). Specific e-mission-phone wikis can be found here:
https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/tree/master/docs/e-mission-phone

**Issues:** Since this repository is part of a larger project, all issues are tracked [in the central docs repository](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/issues). If you have a question, [as suggested by the open source guide](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#communicating-effectively), please file an issue instead of sending an email. Since issues are public, other contributors can try to answer the question and benefit from the answer.

Updating the UI only
---
[![osx-serve-install](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/workflows/osx-serve-install/badge.svg)](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/actions?query=workflow%3Aosx-serve-install)

If you want to make only UI changes, (as opposed to modifying the existing plugins, adding new plugins, etc), you can use the **new and improved** (as of June 2018) e-mission dev app. 

### Installing (one-time)

Run the setup script

```
$ bash setup/setup_serve.sh
```

**(optional)** Configure by changing the files in `www/json`.
Defaults are in `www/json/*.sample`

```
$ ls www/json/*.sample
$ cp www/json/startupConfig.json.sample www/json/startupConfig.json
$ cp ..... www/json/connectionConfig.json
```

### Activation (after install, and in every new shell)

```
$ source setup/activate_serve.sh
```

### (Temporary) Every time the react component is changed

```
$ npm run compile-react
```
  
### Running

1. Start the phonegap deployment server and note the URL(s) that the server is listening to.

    ```
    $ npm run serve
    ....
    [phonegap] listening on 10.0.0.14:3000
    [phonegap] listening on 192.168.162.1:3000
    [phonegap]
    [phonegap] ctrl-c to stop the server
    [phonegap]
    ....
    ```
  
1. Change the devapp connection URL to one of these (e.g. 192.168.162.1:3000) and press "Connect"
1. The app will now display the version of e-mission app that is in your local directory
  1. The console logs will be displayed back in the server window (prefaced by `[console]`)
  1. Breakpoints can be added by connecting through the browser
    - Safari ([enable develop menu](https://support.apple.com/guide/safari/use-the-safari-develop-menu-sfri20948/mac)): Develop -> Simulator -> index.html
    - Chrome: chrome://inspect -> Remote target (emulator)
    
**Ta-da!** :gift: If you change any of the files in the `www` directory, the app will automatically be re-loaded without manually restarting either the server or the app :tada:

**Note1**: You may need to scroll up, past all the warnings about `Content Security Policy has been added` to find the port that the server is listening to.

End to end testing
---
A lot of the visualizations that we display in the phone client come from the server. In order to do end to end testing, we need to run a local server and connect to it. Instructions for:

1. installing a local server,
2. running it, 
3. loading it with test data, and
4. running analysis on it

are available in the [e-mission-server README](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-server/blob/master/README.md).

In order to make end to end testing easy, if the local server is started on a HTTP (versus HTTPS port), it is in development mode.  By default, the phone app connects to the local server (localhost on iOS, [10.0.2.2 on android](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5806220/how-to-connect-to-my-http-localhost-web-server-from-android-emulator-in-eclips)) with the `prompted-auth` authentication method. To connect to a different server, or to use a different authentication method, you need to create a `www/json/connectionConfig.json` file. More details on configuring authentication [can be found in the docs](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-docs/docs/e-mission-common/configuring_authentication.md).

One advantage of using `skip` authentication in development mode is that any user email can be entered without a password. Developers can use one of the emails that they loaded test data for in step (3) above. So if the test data loaded was with `-u shankari@eecs.berkeley.edu`, then the login email for the phone app would also be `shankari@eecs.berkeley.edu`.

Updating the e-mission-\* plugins or adding new plugins
---
[![osx-build-ios](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/workflows/osx-build-ios/badge.svg)](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/actions?query=workflow%3Aosx-ubuntu-build-android)
[![osx-ubuntu-build-android](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/workflows/osx-ubuntu-build-android/badge.svg)](https://github.com/e-mission/e-mission-phone/actions?query=workflow%3Aosx-build-ios)

Pre-requisites
---
- the version of xcode used by the CI
    - to install a particular version, use [xcode-select](https://www.unix.com/man-page/OSX/1/xcode-select/)
    - or this [supposedly easier to use repo](https://github.com/xcpretty/xcode-install)
    - **NOTE**: the basic xcode install on Catalina was messed up for me due to a prior installation of command line tools. [These workarounds helped](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/blob/master/macOS_Catalina.md).
- git
- the most recent version of android studio
    - **NOTE**: although Catalina has a `/usr/bin/java`, trying to run it gives the error `No Java runtime present, requesting install.`. Installed [OpenJDK 1.8 using AdoptOpenJDK](https://adoptopenjdk.net/releases.html) to be consistent with the CI.

Important
---
Most of the recent issues encountered have been due to incompatible setup. We
have now:
- locked down the dependencies,
- created setup and teardown scripts to setup self-contained environments with
  those dependencies, and
- CI enabled to validate that they continue work.

If you have setup failures, please compare the configuration in the passing CI
builds with your configuration. That is almost certainly the source of the error.

Installing (one time only)
---
Run the setup script for the platform you want to build

```
$ bash setup/setup_android_native.sh
AND/OR
$ bash setup/setup_ios_native.sh
```

**(optional)** Configure by changing the files in `www/json`.
Defaults are in `www/json/*.sample`

```
$ ls www/json/*.sample
$ cp www/json/startupConfig.json.sample www/json/startupConfig.json
$ cp ..... www/json/connectionConfig.json
```

### Activation (after install, and in every new shell)

```
$ source setup/activate_native.sh
```



Run in the emulator

```
$ npx cordova emulate ios
AND/OR
$ npx cordova emulate android
```

Creating logos
---
If you are building your own version of the app, you must have your own logo to
avoid app store conficts. Updating the logo is very simple using the [`ionic
cordova resources`](https://ionicframework.com/docs/v3/cli/cordova/resources/)
command.

**Note**: You may have to install the [`cordova-res` package](https://github.com/ionic-team/cordova-res) for the command to work


Troubleshooting
---
- Make sure to use `npx ionic` and `npx cordova`. This is
  because the setup script installs all the modules locally in a self-contained
  environment using `npm install` and not `npm install -g`
- Check the CI to see whether there is a known issue
- Run the commands from the script one by one and see which fails
    - compare the failed command with the CI logs
- Another workaround is to delete the local environment and recreate it
    - javascript errors: `rm -rf node_modules && npm install`
    - native code compile errors: `rm -rf plugins && rm -rf platforms && npx cordova prepare`

Beta-testing debugging
---
If users run into problems, they have the ability to email logs to the
maintainer. These logs are in the form of an sqlite3 database, so they have to
be opened using `sqlite3`. Alternatively, you can export it to a csv with
dates using the `bin/csv_export_add_date.py` script.

```
<download the log file>
$ mv ~/Downloads/loggerDB /tmp/logger.<issue>
$ pwd
.../e-mission-phone
$ python bin/csv_export_add_date.py /tmp/loggerDB.<issue>
$ less /tmp/loggerDB.<issue>.withdate.log
```

Contributing
---

Add the main repo as upstream

    $ git remote add upstream https://github.com/covid19database/phone-app.git

Create a new branch (IMPORTANT). Please do not submit pull requests from master

    $ git checkout -b mybranch

Make changes to the branch and commit them

    $ git commit

Push the changes to your local fork

    $ git push origin mybranch

Generate a pull request from the UI

Address my review comments

Once I merge the pull request, pull the changes to your fork and delete the branch
```
$ git checkout master
$ git pull upstream master
$ git push origin master
$ git branch -d mybranch
```
